My PS4 beeps but won't turn on.
This is really annoying.
Check to see if it is stuck in rest mode,
with the light staying orange.
One shortcut is actually turning it off and
then back on.
That may only fix it until the next time it
goes into rest mode.
Once it comes on, go to the settings menu
and tell it not to update in rest mode.
The unit may beep but not turn on because
the unit cannot complete downloads of updates,
has errors trying to complete updates, or
connection problems timing out the update.
I’ve heard jokes about software engineers
thinking they can fix hardware problems and
vice versa, but this is literally.
Literally literal.
That is not funny.
What else might it not be turning on?
Make sure it is not giving you the blue light
of death; that may only be fixed by taking
the HDD out and putting it back in.
I thought disconnecting everything, turning
it off, reconnecting everything and turning
it on could fix that.
Hold down the button for thirty seconds, long
enough for two beeps, until it comes up in
safe mode.
Please do not tell me this is the Sony equivalent
of if in doubt, reboot tech support.
After bringing it up in safe mode, you can
select to run any updates that might have
failed while it was in rest mode.
Use the update system software option.
I can restart it at that point, too.
You can do a restore to default settings,
if it updated recently and then lost its mind.
Sometimes the updates themselves cause problems
like this.
How do you know it might be the update?
Because Playstation 4s were getting stuck
in rest mode after a firmware update in the
past.
I would not be surprised if it happened with
a subsequent update.
What do you think about rebuilding the database?
You’ll lose the information that is not
saved to the cloud, but it is less destructive
than initializing the PlayStation 4.
It also does not delete the system software.
That’s what initializing PS4 with the reinstall
system software does.
That’s pretty much the last option short
of declaring it a brick and practicing shot-putt
with it.
No, calling tech support is the option before
that.
Any other ideas of what I can try before that
point?
Log into PSN with your account and make sure
it is still active, and update any information.
You might verify your email in case the PS4
will not come on because it cannot figure
out how to give you a verification screen
coming out of rest mode.
I’m just tired of glitches like that.
Still not as bad as an Xbox One.